Rules
Additional rules
And yes! here they finally are. The rule-o-matic has decided and this is the result;
Genre requirement

genre rule #157: It's a Zoo!

Comments:

A zoo simulator? A story set in a zoo? An arcade game where you have to capture zoo animals? You decide!

Challenge 2.8333, Interest: 4.0

Artistic requirement

art rule #84: Include references to the works of a science fiction author of your choice.

Comments: References can be really subtle. Just using the number 42 is a (rather cliche) science fiction reference. Of course, that's rather low effort. I'm hoping for something cleverer, something that affects the gameplay even.

For inspiration, I'm linking some science fiction lists:

    Best Science Fiction books (goodreads)
    Top 15 Science Fiction authors
    List of science fiction authors on wikipedia

Challenge 2.1667, Interest: 3.8333

Technical requirements

tech rule #132: Catastrophic overflow: Chaos ensues as the capacity of some container is exceeded.

Comments: There are many games with overflowing containers. You can go literal and do some sort of liquid simulation. But it can be abstract too. Some games have an "Doom meter", and if it reaches a certain limit, it's "game over".

Or take Civilization for example. Isn't that just a game about filling containers? Fill the research container with light bulbs, the construction container with production, and the population container with food. Fill Gandhi's agression meter and watch the nukes fly.

Challenge 2.2, Interest: 4.2


tech rule #116: If At First You Don't Succeed: The game must have a quicksave / quickload feature.

Comments:

Many save mechanisms have been invented over the course of computer game history. Some games let you save only at strict save points, others let you reload at will. Some games let you reload without limits, leading to "savescumming". Other games try to prevent this.
Quicksave (according to wikipedia) refers to a very particular system where the player can save and load a game using a single keypress. Of course this definition is very narrow, and it may be acceptable if you diverge a bit and implement some different save mechanism. But the closer you stick to the wikipedia definition, the higher score you can get during the review process.

Challenge 3.8571, Interest: 3.7143

Bonus

bonus rule #31: Act of Sutskever: You may replace one rule with a rule generated by ChatGPT or a similar LLM tool. 
You must use the following prompt exactly: 

`Please write an extra requirement for a 72h game jam in only a single sentence. 
The requirement should be generic and not too hard to meet even for beginning game designers. 
The rule should be open for multiple interpretations and encourage creativity.` 

You may invoke this prompt only once. You may decide which rule to replace after you received your AI response, 
you may even decide to stick with the original rules after all.

Comments: If you decide to invoke this rule, you must include a screenshot or transcript of your LLM-based chat with your game submission.

Challenge 1.8, Interest: 3.4

Standard rules

1. Time: The competition is from Friday 29 May 2026, 12:00 UTC to Monday 1 June 2026, 12:00 UTC. You are not allowed to write code for your entry before or after these times. All entries must be uploaded on this website before Monday 1 June 2026, 12:00 GMT.

2. Size: the entry may not be larger than 100.0 MB, zipped. This must include all source files and all assets (graphics, sound, music) needed to compile and run your entry. Compiled binaries are optional, they don't have to be included, but you may wish to provide them anyway.

3. Source: the complete source code must be included with the entry. You don't have to include the source of dependencies, such as allegro, as long as they are easily found on the web.

4. Declaring re-use Because reusing is an essential hacking skill, You can re-use any code or assets that:

    You are legally able to do so (your own, GPLed, giftware, public domain or any other Free Software licence) AND
    Was available and easily accessible online before the start of the competition This means that until the start of the competition you may still upload your own code (e.g. initialization code, utility classes) or assets that could come in handy during the competition. 

You are obliged to make clear what parts of your entry you re-used, preferably in a README that accompanies your entry.

5. Use of Artificial Intelligence You are allowed to make use of AI coding assistants and generative AI to generate assets, as long as you clearly indicate how and what you generated in an accompanying README. Not every reviewer will be a fan of generative AI, so there is a chance that you will be marked lower than you otherwise would, this is in the reviewers purview.

Side note: the way I see it, generative AI has pros and cons. On the one hand, game jams are opportunities to experiment with technologies, and AI and games have always been tightly interconnected. On the other hand, I see ongoing legal battles surrounding potential copyright violations of LLMs. I am not a lawyer so I will not attempt to predict the outcome of these cases, but I will watch them closely.

6. Choice of game engine / framework. You may use any engine, framework or programming language, as long as you take care to make your game portable (See also next point).

7. Portability. Reviewers may use Windows, Linux or Mac. You must assist reviewers in running the game on their machine, either by deploying on the web, providing binaries, or making the code easy to recompile. Don't rely on features that are platform-dependent. You will be given the opportunity to submit portability fixes after the deadline of the competition

8. Additional rules. There will be additional rules that are announced at Friday 29 May 2026, 12:00. These rules come in four categories: Genre Requirements, Technical requirements, Artistic requirements and Bonus rules. Skipping or ignoring some of these rules will not immediately disqualify you, but it will reduce your rating and thus drastically reduce your chances of winning

9. Teams: You may participate alone, or as a team of any size.

10. Reviewing and deciding a winner. To ensure that each entry will be reviewed, each entrant will be assigned two entries to review and six entries to rate. Awards will be assigned based on these ratings. There will be awards in the following categories:

    Best overall

    Best implementation of technical requirements

    Best implementation of artistical requirements

    Best implementation of genre requirements

11. Prizes There will be no prize this year, apart from eternal glory of course.

12. Dispute resolution The organizer of the TINS competition, Martijn "amarillion" van Iersel, is final arbitrator in any dispute regarding voting, reviewing, scoring, awarding prizes, and interpretation of these rules. Amarillion is himself excluded from the final ranking.
Other Important Info

People should keep a informative and interesting account of their development through the competition. As always, a web-based speedhack log facility will be available during the competition on this website.

There will be a mailinglist for participants, where you can easily drop a message to all participants. The mailinglist will be closed a few months after the competition. Experience has taught that there are always last minute bug fixes after the competition, this mailinglist will be the place to announce them.

You can make use of all information sources, mailing lists as you see fit. This is not an exam! :-) 